# Seeking Help Like a Responsible Programmer

## Learning Goals

- Identify help request patterns of development

## Introduction

Many developers have written posts to Stack Overflow dozens of times, but only
submitted a few. Why is that? Usually, it's because by the time they figure out
how to methodically ask a Good Question, they've found their own answers. Let's
see how that method works, step by step.

### Identify Help Request Patterns of Development

When we developers come to a point in our programming where we need to ask for
help, we follow a process similar to the problem-solving process we've already
discussed. We focus in on the relevant piece of code, identify the inputs,
outputs and expectations, theorize what should happen, check documentation, test
implementation and then, if necessary, ask our question. By the time we've gone
through all of these steps we either have the answers we started out to find or
we have the perfectly formulated question to send out into the world.

1. **Begin with a focused section of code.** Avoid posting too much code. The
more you can focus on the particular area you want help with, the more you can
exclude irrelevant code that could needlessly complicate or confuse your
questions. If you struggle to narrow down the bit that causing you trouble, that
tells you that you might need to ask a larger, more fundamental question.

2. **State your inputs.** What are specific values you are putting into your
code? That's an important factor you want to be able to identify and express,
because the error might be there.

3. **State your outputs.** Similiarly, identifying what values you're getting as
a result will help pinpoint a potential error.

4. **State your expectation.** What result did you think you would get? This
step is the best way to clarify your original goal, which will help both you and
whoever helps you make sure you work towards the correct solution.

5. **State your theory for what should have happened.** This closely aligns with
the previous step, "state your expectation,"" but remember that not only do you
need to know _what_ result you want, you need to understand _why_ that result
should happen. That's how you can better spot errors and make corrections.

6. **Check the documentation to make sure your implementation works as
expected.** All developers have been in a position before where they thought
something worked a certain way, but in fact did not. Double check all the
available documentation for whichever tool or technique you're using so that you
can eliminate that as a contributing factor to the current issue.

7. **Test the implementation in IRB.** IRB is a great playground. Test out your
implementation there so that you can see how the pieces work in practice.

8. **Submit the question (if necessary).** As we said before, often going
through these steps will uncover any problems. But if you still need help, now
is the right time to ask for it.

## Conclusion

Generally, methodical description and documentation will help you see your bug.
If it doesn't, all of the information you gathered, tested and referenced will
help others know how to guide you to the answer you need.

## Resources

- [Stack Overflow: How to Ask](https://stackoverflow.com/help/how-to-ask)
